1q What's the term to refer to the physical screen you are currently looking at? 
1a (b) Console
2q What's the term to refer to the environment from which a shell is used where users can etner their commands?
2a ( uh oh 
3q What's the term to refer to the environment that offers a command line on which users type the commnads they want to use? 
3a (c) Shell
4q Which device file is associated with the virtual console that is opened after using the Alt-F6 key sequence? 
4a 
5q What methods open a pseudo terminal device? 
5a A and D; Login using an SSH session & enter username and password on a nongraphical console
6q Which does *not* typically require a reboot? Recover from a hang/ kernel panic; Apply kernel updates; Apply chnages to kernel modules in current use (therefore cannot be reloaded); Apply changes to the network configuration
6a D; Apply network config changes.
7q How to access Linux from Windows?
7a Install an SSH program like PuTTY, or use new Powershell SSH commands
8q What is the name of the file in which the public key fingerprint of the SSH servers you have connected to in the past are stored?
8a D ~/.ssh/known_hosts, but could be c *remote* hosts (pretty sure it's known)
9q What parameter in /etc/ssh/ssh_config enables permanent use of graphical applications through an SSH session? What about one-time command line option? 
9a idk; -X for command-line option per session 
10q SSH question
10a 
11q Another SSH question
11a
12q What is a console and what is a terminal? 
12a A terminal is an environment opened on a console providing access to a nongraphical shell, typically Bash. Think the Terminal app on Mac. A console is the literal computer in front of you. While often used interchangeably, you can have multiple terminals open on your console, you cannot have multiple consoles open in one terminal. 
12e Example "Log in to a graphical RHEL console and open a terminal window"
13q Is the root account enabled by default on RHEL 9? Is SSH allowed by default? What if you don't specify a root password?  
13a Yes, it's enabled. No, SSH isn't allowed by default. If no password is provided you can't login as root. These can be changed post install. 
14q How would you change to various virtual terminals within an existing non-graphical terminal? 
14a chvt 1-6, eg; $ chvt 3 # Would CHange my current sessions to Virtual Terminal #3;
14e There are 6 virtual terminals, each with a device file at /dev/tty1 through /dev/tty6 
15q Where are pseudo terminal devices located?  
15a /dev/pts/1, etc. 
16q What does rebooting ensure? Why is this important on the RHCSA exam?  
16a All processes and tasks running have reread their configurations and initialized properly. Rebooting during the RHCSA will test critical modifications to the server configuration. If your server cannot reboot anymore after applying a critical modification, at least you know where to look to fix the issue. 
17q   
