1q For ex200 RHCSA 9 which of the following distributions should you avoid?
1a RHEL 9 with dev license, Alma, or Rocky. 
1e RHEL 9 is offered with 16 free development (non prod) licenses. Alma and Rocky are "downstream" of RHEL.
2q For RHCSA which of the following distributions should you avoid?
2a CentOS Stream, Fedora
2e CentOS Stream is an upstream development snapshot of RHEL, while Fedora is a further upstream, experimental, community distrobution.
3q Which of the following features is available in both RHEL and CentOS Stream?
3a Software updates
3e !idk
4q Which of hte following features are exclusive to RHEL (not included in CentOS Stream)? 
4a Hardware certification, Software certification, The right ot make support calls
4e !idk
5q Why should you install the server with a GUI installation pattern?
5a To prepare for RHCSA, you need some tools that run in a GUI only, such as (!idk). 
5e For sake of studying you'll appreciate having a GUI when working with Virtual Machines, configuring LDAP & Kerberos, and it make sthings easier with multiple terminal windows
6q Which is the default file system that is used in RHEL 9?
6a XFS is the default file system of RHEL 9
6e !When did it change to XFS? Was it eve Ext4? What's the most popular file system for RHEL?
7q Which feature is supported in Ext4 but not in XFS?
a. The ability to shrink the file system
b. Snapshots
c. File system quota
d. A maximum size that goes beyond 2 TB
From the Library of Joel Hansen
5
Chapter 1: Installing Red Hat Enterprise Linux
6. Which of the following is not a reason why Fedora should be avoided?
a. Fedora contains features that may or may not be available in future
RHEL releases.
b. Fedora distributions show a much later state of development than RHEL.
c. Fedora software is not stable.
d. Software in Fedora may differ from the same software in RHEL.
7. Which of the following options is not available from the Installation Summary
screen?
a. Time & Date
b. Keyboard
c. Language Support
d. Troubleshoot an Existing Installation
8. After setting the root password that you want to use, you cannot proceed in
the installation. What is the most likely reason?
a. The password is unsecure, and unsecure passwords are not accepted.
b. The password does not meet requirements in the password policy.
c. You also need to create a user.
d. If an unsecure password is used, you need to click Done twice.
9. Which statement about the system language is not true?
a. You can change the system language from the Installation Summary
screen.
b. You can change the system language directly after booting from the
installation media.
c. When setting the installation language, you can also select a keyboard
layout.
d. After installation, you cannot change the language settings.
10. When installing a server that uses LVM logical volumes, you’ll get at least three
storage volumes (partitions or LVM). Which of the following is not part of them?
a. /boot
b. /var
c. /
d. swap
21q
21a
21e
