1q For ex200 RHCSA 9 which of the following distributions should you use? Which should you avoid?
1a Use RHEL 9 with dev license, or Alma or Rocky. CentOS Stream is upstream dev "snapshot" of RHEL, Fedora is further upstream and experimental. 
1e RHEL 9 is offered with 16 free development (non prod) licenses. Alma and Rocky are "downstream" of RHEL.
2q Which of the following features is available in both RHEL and CentOS Stream?
2a All software updates are made available in CentOS. 
2e Hardware and software certification, as well as Support are RHEL exclusive
3q Why should you install the server with a GUI installation pattern?
3a To prepare for RHCSA, you need some tools that run in a GUI only, such as (!idk). 
3e For sake of studying you'll appreciate having a GUI when working with Virtual Machines, configuring LDAP & Kerberos, and it make sthings easier with multiple terminal windows
4q Which is the default file system that is used in RHEL 9?
4a XFS is the default file system of RHEL 9
4e !When did it change to XFS? Was it eve Ext4? What's the most popular file system for RHEL?
5q Which feature is supported in Ext4 but not XFS? 
5a The size of an XFS file system cannot be reduced.  
6q What are some reasons to avoid Fedora? What's a poor reason?   
6a Fedora has features that may not be in future RHEL releases, softare (and bugs) may differ from the same software in RHEL. However, "stability" is a poor reason. It's definitely stable. 
7q Which is NOT available from the Installation Summary Screen: Time & Date, Keyboard, Language Support, Troubleshoot an Existing Installation
7a D: Troubleshootin an Existing Installation is available when booting from disk but NOT on the Installation Summary screen 
8q After setting the root password that you want to use, you cannot proceed with the installation. What is the most likely reason? 
8a You have to confirm (hit done) *twice*, as you are absolutely allowed to use an unsecure root password.
9q When can the language be set in a RHEL install? 
9q Installation Summary screen, directly after booting from installation media, and after installation.
10q When installing a server that uses LVM logical volumes, you'll get *at least* three storage volumes (partitions or LVM), such as:  
10a /, /boot, and swap; /var, while maybe makes sens to be on its own logical volume, isn't separated onto its own by default. 
11q You do not want to buy RHEL but want to create an exam practice environment. What distro should you use? 
11a RHEL with one of your 16 dev licenses, or Alma or Rocky.
12q What happens to the network configuration if you don't specify anything during the installation? 
12a Your network card *may* not be enabled. If it is, the system will automatically obtain an IP address from a DHCP server.
13q What are the hardware requirements of a "Minimal" install? 
13a 1GiB, 10 GiB, a network card. Double are recommended. 
14q Why is it a good idea to have Internet access on servers you are installing? 
14a By default updates and additional software packages require Internet. 
15q You want to install a virtual machine on a computer that does not have an optical disk drive. What is the easiest alternative to perform the installation?  
15a Use an ISO image to install a virtual machine. 
16q What are some benefiits of a GUI?  
16a Multiple terminal windows!  
17q What is the default file system used by RHEL 9?  
17a XFS.  
18q Can you install RHEL without Internet access? 
18a Yes, but you can't register with RHN, so you won't have access to any repositories. You'll have to setup repository access manually after install.  
19q What is the most important benefit of using Subscription Manager to register your RHEL 9 installation? 
19a Access to RHEL repositories.  
20q Which installation pattern should you use if you have a very limited amount of disk space available? 
20a Minimal Installation (sans GUI)
21q Setup a server using the "Minimal Installation" pattern
21a When installing RHEL you can choose a Base Environment. Minimal Install (sans GUI) is *very* common.
22q What is "Linux"? What's a Linux distribution? 
22a Linux is a Unix-like operating system based on the Linux kernal, which was first released by Linus Torvalds in 1991. Linux is packaged as a "distribution", which includes the kernal and supporting software and librarys, many of which are provided by the GNU Project.  
